and I'll say this right at the outset I
don't think I'm any different than any
of my former colleagues every Michigan
State player has an added advantage
because he's coached by Mark Dantonio
and comes from that program Michigan
State is the is the Good Housekeeping
Seal of Approval there are programs are
you know a handful around America where
you say this kid will step right into
our program and know exactly what to do
all the time so that's a benefit for all
of the Spartan players want to talk
about to the Michigan State team for a
second defensively the last two years
what Mark Dantonio and Pat Narduzzi
defense is done ranking among the top
ten in scoring defense total defense and
rushing defense only Alabama at Florida
State can also make that plain how
difficult is it for them to maintain
that level play when you get guys
graduating every year or leaving early
for the pros it's it's a credit to the
coaching it really is to mark dantonio
to Pat Narduzzi because they run a lot
of pro principles and what we know in
the in the college football you have the
20-hour week role so it's more or less
about their scheme how its introduced
during spring practices how its
reintroduced during training camp and
how they're able to execute all those
schemes during the regular season so to
me it's about coaching style and
teaching very complex schemes but yet no
other team is doing it in college
football and they're very complex they
execute them tremendously and quite
honestly other college team they're just
not prepared for those type of blitz
owns and all the different fronts and
coverages that Pat Narduzzi throws at
opposing offense so you know I credit
strictly to coaching granted you need
great players but it's the scheme and
the style and how those young men are
taught to execute it that really puts
that defense above others last year
seven and six certainly didn't meet the
preseason expectations but so close with
the five losses by combined total of
thirteen points but the back-to-back
Bowl wins some momentum carrying into
this spring program is really a lot
closely competing for a championship
again than it is being far away you
I i agree i think again it comes down to
coaches pounding the pavement recruiting
the pro philosophies both offensively
and defensively and then you know again
young players coming up through the
pipeline I mean Michigan State lost a
lot of players we look especially the
offensive leadership of Kirk cousin
Keshawn Martin bj cunningham and then
all these young players were thrust in
it and in two planes a significant
amount of time Andrew Maxwell and BJ
Fowler and all these young receivers and
there is a learning curve there is a
learning curve where those players got
to get out there and and really
understand what it's like playing on
game day and I think they're through
that right now Michigan State has passed
that they've always had a
championship-caliber defense now to
bring the offensive accountability with
these young players now their second
year playing a full season should this
be very fruitful for Michigan State talk
to kirk cousins earlier today and he
said he looks back on his experience
last year at the combine with mixed
emotions people really have a difficult
time comprehending what those guys do go
through this week it's it's overwhelming
I mean it just it never ends so from the
minute you wake up to the minute you go
to sleep at 11pm 12 p.m. at night it is
non-stop football and it's all done with
a purpose from the medical exams to the
interviews dealing with the media here
out front but make no mistake about it
first and foremost it's about the
medical evaluations of these players
down here at the combine but it can be a
very dizzying process if you've never
been to it's probably one of the
craziest job interviews I was ever a
part of and I'm sure Kirk Cousins would
say the same thing and it is an
eye-opener and it really lets you know
as a player that you are entering the
business this is a business when you
talk about the National Football League
these teams are in the business of
winning and they are trying to acquire
the best investments that they can in
these players and I think that for a lot
of players at times can be overwhelming
but if you understand it you understand
the process it can be obviously you can
go through it undaunted as well